Greetings and welcome to J.W. Broadcasting.
We have an exciting program in store for you.
We'll learn how Jehovah has revealed his sacred secret
and what it means for each of us.
We'll see a dramatization that will help us stay focused on serving Jehovah
and avoid becoming overly concerned with when the end will come.
In this new episode of our history and motion,
we'll learn how Jehovah's Organization has harnessed motion picture technology
to preach and teach.
And we'll enjoy a thought-provoking music video with a timely message
we're happier when we keep it simple.
This is J.W. Broadcasting for August 2024.
Do you like mysteries or puzzles?
What about secrets?
Are you good at keeping honorable secrets confidential?
Jehovah had a secret that he kept for about 4,000 years.
Unlike human secrets which often are difficult to keep confidential,
Jehovah's sacred secret would be revealed only by divine revelation.
In other words, Jehovah would reveal the details only in his due time.
Proverbs 25 verse 2 says,
It is the glory of God to keep a matter secret.
What's the secret we're talking about?
It's related to the first prophecy recorded in the Bible,
found at Genesis chapter 3 verse 15.
How would Jehovah fix the damage caused by the rebellion in the Garden of Eden?
Jehovah said to the serpent who deceived Eve,
and I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring.
He will crush your head and you will strike him in the heel.
What an intriguing prophecy.
It was spoken some 6,000 years ago,
but its meaning affects each one of us,
and every person who has ever lived.
Who was behind the voice of the serpent?
Who was the woman?
Eve might have thought that she was,
because when she later gave birth to Cain,
she said at Genesis 4 verse 1,
I have produced a male child with the help of Jehovah.
But Eve was not the woman of the prophecy.
Jehovah's secret was still a secret.
Who was the offspring of the woman?
If Eve thought it was Cain, she was sadly disappointed.
Jehovah would reveal these details according to his timetable,
long after Adam and Eve died.
We might compare the revealing of Jehovah's sacred secret to this puzzle box.
It's locked and seems impossible to open.
However, a series of steps leads to opening the box
and revealing the treasure inside.
Those steps are like the details that led to identifying
the promised offspring of the woman.
What were some of those details?
Over 2,000 years after the prophecy in Eden,
Jehovah made a promise to the faithful man Abraham
that provided a piece of the puzzle.
What did Jehovah say?
We find his words at Genesis 22 verses 17 and 18.
I will surely bless you and I will surely multiply your offspring
like the stars of the heavens and like the grains of sand on the seashore.
And your offspring will take possession of the gate of his enemies.
And by means of your offspring, all nations of the earth
will obtain a blessing for themselves.
Wow!
Jehovah revealed the first detail to unlock his sacred secret.
Abraham must have been amazed when he looked up to the heavens
and saw thousands of stars.
Although Abraham would not see the complete fulfillment of the promise
in his lifetime, it certainly would be fulfilled at a future time
by the God who does not lie.
Jehovah repeated the promise to Abraham's son Isaac
and to Isaac's son Jacob.
Jacob in his deathbed prophecy said at Genesis 49-10
that the scepter would not depart from Judah.
So we learn that kingship is involved
and that the promised offspring would come through Judah's line.
Later, Jehovah provided the mosaic law
to help protect the nation of Israel
and the promised offspring.
What was the next significant detail to be revealed?
In 1070 BCE, Judah's descendant David became king over all Israel.
David was a man agreeable to Jehovah's heart.
And Jehovah promised to raise up someone in David's royal line
who would rule forever.
The promise is recorded at 2 Samuel 7 verses 12 and 13.
I will raise up your offspring after you, your own son,
and I will firmly establish his kingdom.
I will firmly establish the throne of his kingdom forever,
where one step closer to identifying the promised offspring,
the offspring would come through David's line.
Although David's son Solomon had a peaceful reign,
he was not the king who would rule forever.
That king would appear in the future at Jehovah's appointed time.
Of course, the devil didn't want the promised offspring of the woman to appear,
so he repeatedly tried to eliminate
or contaminate the lineage to the offspring.
However, Jehovah made sure that the devil failed in his attempts.
Down through the centuries,
Jehovah through his prophets provided specific details
regarding the promised offspring.
For instance, the prophet Micah foretold that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem.
Daniel's prophecy of the 70 weeks of years indicated the exact year
when the Messiah would appear.
Also, Isaiah's prophecy revealed that the offspring would die a sacrificial death.
Jehovah was progressively revealing details about his sacred secret.
In centuries later, in the year 2 BCE,
the angel Gabriel appeared to a Jewish virgin named Mary
and made a startling declaration to her.
Would you like to know what it is?
It's found at Luke chapter 1 verses 31 through 33.
Look, you will become pregnant and give birth to a son,
and you are to name him Jesus.
This one will be great,
and will be called son of the most high,
and Jehovah God will give him the throne of David his father,
and he will rule as king over the house of Jacob forever,
and there will be no end to his kingdom.
Both Mary and Jesus' adoptive father Joseph were descendants of David,
so Jesus received both the natural and the legal rights of an heir of David.
Can you imagine what might have been going through Mary's mind
after hearing those words?
Did she perhaps remember hearing similar details
from the book of Moses about the promised offspring?
Of course, about nine months later, when Jesus was born,
Jehovah's angel appeared to shepherds
who were tending their flocks near Bethlehem.
The angel announced, as recorded in Luke chapter 2,
today there was born to you in David's city, a savior,
who was Christ the Lord.
After thousands of years,
Jehovah was giving notice that his sacred secret
would soon be revealed.
The shepherds went and told Mary and Joseph
about this divine message.
The word about the Christ was spreading.
About thirty years later,
in the days of John the baptizer,
the people were in expectation,
and all of them were reasoning in their hearts about John,
may he perhaps be the Christ?
A short time later,
Jesus the Nazarene came to John to be baptized.
After Jesus came up out of the water,
Jehovah anointed him with Holy Spirit and said,
this is my son, the beloved.
At long last,
the promised offspring of Genesis 315 had arrived.
Humble Jews readily responded to Jesus' teachings in ministry,
but there were many more details about the sacred secret
yet to be revealed,
like the many facets of a beautiful crystal.
During his ministry, Jesus himself identified the serpent,
as Satan,
and the serpent's offspring
as those who display the devil's characteristics.
Jesus also revealed, as recorded in Luke 22 verses 28 through 30,
that there would be a secondary part of the woman's offspring.
Spirit anointed Christians who will rule with Christ in heaven.
Later, the Apostle Paul identified the woman of the prophecy
as the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization
made up of faithful spirit creatures.
Of course, the enmity for told at Genesis 3 verse 15 continues
into our day.
The devil and his offspring continued to wage war
with the remaining ones of the woman's offspring on earth.
But what did the Messiah accomplish while he was on the earth?
The Jews were hoping that he would bring liberation
from Roman oppression.
However, Daniel's prophecy indicated that the Messiah
would be cut off or put to death.
This corresponded to the striking in the heel mentioned
at Genesis 3 verse 15.
Still, Jehovah also revealed at Psalm 16 verse 10 that his son
would not be left in the grave.
True to his promise, Jehovah resurrected Jesus
less than three days after his death.
Of course, a principal part of Jehovah's sacred secret
involved the Messianic kingdom of which Christ would be king.
While Jesus was on earth, he cured the sick.
He fed the hungry and resurrected the dead,
things that will do on a far greater scale as king of God's kingdom.
After Jesus ascended to heaven, many additional details
about God's sacred secret were revealed in the writings
we now know as the Christian Greek scriptures.
Colossians 2 verse 3 says,
carefully concealed in him or Christ
are all the treasures of wisdom and of knowledge.
When did the sacred secret come to its finish?
Revelation 10 verse 7 says that it would occur in the days
when the seventh angel is about to blow his trumpet.
When did that take place?
Let's note the answer at Revelation 11 verse 15.
The seventh angel blew his trumpet
and there were loud voices in heaven saying,
the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord
and of his Christ and he will rule as king forever and ever.
This occurred in 1914 when Christ Jesus became king of God's kingdom.
But is that the end?
No.
The revelation provides additional details regarding God's kingdom
and future events that most people would consider shocking.
For example, Revelation 19 verses 11 through 16
reveals that Christ Jesus, the king of kings and Lord of lords,
will strike the nations and shepherd them with a rod of iron
as king of God's kingdom Jesus will soon crush
all human governments and hurl the devil into an abyss of inactivity.
This will lead to 1,000 years of peace.
At the end of the thousand years,
the devil will be released from the abyss for a short time
and then the final fulfillment of Genesis 3 verse 15 will occur.
The offspring of the woman will crush the head of the devil.
How does all of this affect us?
We're privileged to know about God's sacred secret,
which he kept secret for some 4,000 years.
Some of the details Jehovah has helped his people to understand
only in recent decades.
Yes, Jehovah has made known to us the sacred secret of his will.
During this broadcast, we have considered only a few facets
of God's sacred secret.
Why not make it a project for personal or family worship?
It's thrilling to think about kingdom realities
and how Jehovah will completely undo the effects of Satan's rebellion.
Christ Jesus now rules as king in the heavens
and the days for this evil system of things under Satan's domination are numbered.
Jesus will soon strike the nations with the rod of iron
and then transform the earth into a beautiful paradise.
What does Jehovah want us to do with his sacred secret?
Should we put it back into the box?
Buried in the ground?
No!
Jehovah wants us to make it known!
The sacred secret is now being proclaimed in over 1,000 languages.
Are you having a full share?
Deep appreciation for this sacred secret
and all that it means for the future will impell us to share it
with as many people as possible.
When the Apostle Paul wrote to Christians in Ephesus,
he requested of them as recorded at Ephesians 6 verse 19.
Pray also for me that the words may be given to me when I open my mouth
so that I may be able to speak boldly and making known the sacred secret of the good news.
That's our prayer for you, dear brothers and sisters,
that we all may continue to declare Jehovah's sacred secret with boldness.
One way we reach many people with the good news
is through special preaching campaigns organized by the branch office.
In the following report, we'll see how Jehovah has blessed this work.
I love to preach, I love to talk about Jehovah.
Whenever I'd read the experiences of pioneers and missionaries in the earbooks,
I wanted to feel the same joy and the same feeling that they had.
When I heard about the announcement about the campaign, I knew that that was my chance.
The first challenge was the pressure I got from others.
Why go so far?
You could use that money to travel somewhere more beautiful.
You could even travel to another country.
These types of comments did affect me a bit.
Other times it was more a question of finances.
I once had to decide whether I would accept an opportunity to work at a good job in the public sector
or whether to turn that opportunity down.
But participating in that campaign was my chance to do more for Jehovah.
I knew this experience would be life-changing.
Throughout the campaign, we met so many sincere people,
some who had never heard Jehovah's name or who didn't even know what Bible was.
One experience that stuck with me was when I tried explaining to someone what the Bible was.
And then her eyes just beamed when she understood that it was a message from God to her personally.
There's a Bible student who is indigenous.
And whenever you talk about Jehovah, her eyes always light up.
She always asks to learn more about Jehovah.
We would study over the public telephone because she lives in a village that's about five days journey away.
But even though it was challenging, she made it to the meetings.
She would bring the whole family, sometimes up to 20 people, would walk into the Kingdom Hall.
I would bring a Bible, a phone and a tablet, and I would pass them around and try to help them.
There's no doubt that having these experiences was well worth it.
I know that participating in this campaign was the best decision.
I started to truly see Jehovah as a real friend.
And it was also wonderful to spend time with a variety of brothers and sisters during the campaign.
It helped me mature spiritually.
I planned to go for a month and ended up staying there for five years.
If I could, I'd do it all over again.
My family owns a guest house, and my father said that we were going to host a group for a campaign.
But I never had contact with Jehovah's Witnesses before.
When the group arrived, the pastor of my church said that I should be very careful about having contact with Jehovah's Witnesses.
So I was. I did everything I could to avoid contact with them.
I would see them leaving early for the ministry.
But one day, there was a sister that didn't go out.
And I thought she's going to try to preach to me.
And that's what she did.
So since she was already staying at the end, I started studying with her.
But at first, it was just to prove her wrong.
As I kept studying, though, I could see that what I was learning was really making sense.
So I couldn't say that that wasn't the truth.
I would also notice the brothers and sisters playing guitar, singing.
And I thought it was so beautiful to see how joyful they always were.
I met the witnesses in April 2016.
And in October, I became an unbaptized publisher.
In January 2017, I was baptized.
And I've been regular pioneering for two years.
I'm sure that all of this happened because Jehovah heard what I prayed for a few days before.
I had had to go to the hospital and I had asked God, help me survive.
So that I can get to know you because I know I don't know the truth about you yet.
He gave me what I asked for.
He sent the brothers just at the right time with the campaign.
I'm sure it was Jehovah who sent them.
Someone could be praying for help to learn about Jehovah.
And he would direct a preaching campaign with brothers from many places to help honest-hearted people.
Some seeds of truth we plant may take root unexpectedly.
By sharing zealously in the preaching work, you could be the one who helps someone hear the truth for the very first time.
Learning about Jehovah can be the turning point in a person's life.
We'll see an example of this in the following interview.
I hated the world situation. There was so much suffering.
And I always had so many questions. Why are we here?
What is it all about? What is the purpose?
Is there really a God? Is there, could He allow all of this?
So I opened the window and I stuck my head out and I said,
if you're there, I want you to know how I feel about you.
I was raised in a religious Jewish family in the Bronx.
My parents viewed money as security and they worked seven days a week.
That really affected us as children a lot.
I was a child let on the loose. I was running the streets.
And so I started using drugs and I started selling drugs and I was getting in every kind of trouble.
And so they moved us out to Long Island hoping things would be better.
But I would take a taxi back into New York City every day.
But one of the drivers was named Joe and we hit it off and I wound up marrying him.
My father was so, so upset. I married. I'm pregnant.
I said to him, I'm moving out and he said to me, don't look back because this is final.
So my family had disowned me. I was a new mother with a baby and I was really hurting.
So I remember one day looking out the window and seeing this little old man come up my stairs.
And he was carrying a little blue book. And he came to my door and he went to 25 cents for that book.
The truth that leads to eternal life.
And I didn't really care about the book but something made me want to give that little old man that quarter.
Right away chapter four caught my attention why we grow old and die.
And I read the entire chapter and I thought it just made sense.
I can't wait to share this with Joe when he comes home.
He just lost his temper. He went out of control.
He did not want to hear about Joe's witnesses.
This is not that important. This book was really not that important.
I didn't want it to begin with. And so I just dropped it in the trash can and thought, that's the end of that. It's gone.
But that little old man came back with a young sister and Joe was there cutting an orange with a knife.
And he was not happy to see those people again.
He took that knife and he waved it in front of the sister's face.
And he said, I don't want you here at the house.
She ran to the door and she said, no problem.
I will definitely not be back.
And they left. And I thought, I really don't think they'll be back.
But they did come back.
An elderly sister who had a Jewish background.
And I said to her, can you not take a hint that I am not interested in speaking with you?
And she said, I get that. I get that.
But I really would love to ask you just one question.
I thought, okay, there's no harm in letting her ask me one question.
She opened up the Green Bible to the cover page where it has the tetragrammaton Jehovah's name in Hebrew.
And she said, will you just say this name for me?
I thought to myself, I'm not going to say that name.
Jewish people don't say that name. I have never, ever said that name.
But finally, I did. I said Yehovah.
For the very first time, I said the name Jehovah.
And I was like, so shocked, you know, I was just waiting for something terrible to happen.
And then she told me that the name Jehovah was in the Bible about 7,000 times.
As soon as she left, I went and got out my Hebrew Bible.
And I was going to look for that name, Jehovah, and circle it if it was there.
So I started to do that. I went through the first page of the second page and I realized as I flipped through the Bible,
it's everywhere. The name Jehovah was everywhere.
I thought, I have got to share this with Joe.
And Joe was really impressed. He was really softening. It made a difference.
A week later, she comes back because she wanted to show me a prophecy in the Hebrew Scriptures in Daniel chapter 9.
She called it the 70 weeks of year's prophecy.
And for the first time, I could see that there was a real answer to when the Messiah would come and what would be the results on the earth.
Seeing those prophecies really motivated me to want to know more.
I thought to myself, if all of these prophecies are from God and he's fulfilling all of them, what other prophecies are there?
What other wonderful things do we have to look forward to?
My relationship with Jehovah just got better and better.
And we were baptized together on December 2nd, 1972.
I came to really appreciate and love Bible prophecy.
I started doing a lot of research and a lot of study on my own.
I loved getting to know Jehovah as a person who wants such good things for us.
Everything he wants, everything he asks of us is for our benefit.
It just really touched me to the core.
My life is so full now with blessings from Jehovah.
I love that name. There's no more beautiful name in the world than Jehovah.
In these distressing times, people often look to money or human organizations.
Almost anywhere for security.
Sister Cologne's experience reassures us that Jehovah is the only secure refuge.
He continues to stabilize and protect her spiritually.
Jehovah's Witnesses have helped millions of people to learn the truth through a variety of methods,
including, of course, this channel, JW Broadcasting.
Today, we use videos in our preaching, meetings, schools and conventions.
But did you know that Jehovah's Organization first used motion pictures more than 100 years ago?
This episode of our history and motion traces that rich history. Let's watch!
Today, we use videos just about everywhere in our worship and ministry.
But did you know that Jehovah's People started using film and video to preach and teach more than 100 years ago?
Let's see how and why in this episode of Our History and Motion.
When the early Bible students first began preaching in the late 1800s,
the motion picture industry was in its infancy.
But even then, CT Russell and his associates recognized the power of this new medium.
Film could be used not only to reach wider audiences, but to touch hearts with Bible truth.
At a convention in June 1913, the Bible students passed a bold resolution,
supporting the use of motion pictures as a new tool for preaching and teaching.
Less than a year later, in January 1914, the brothers debuted the photo drama of creation.
The eight-hour production included color slides and motion picture film,
most of it footage that Russell purchased from other studios.
Imagine sitting in a packed auditorium and seeing, possibly for the first time,
moving pictures of events described in the Bible.
And there was something else in the photo drama that really took audiences by surprise.
The photo drama of creation is presented by the ICSA,
the International Bible Student Association.
Synchronized dialogue.
The photo drama played in theaters and auditoriums around the world.
But what if film could be used to teach the truth not just in big theaters,
but right in a person's own living room?
That was the idea behind a series of short films released in the 1920s.
These silent films, chronicling the travels of JF Rutherford in the Bible lands,
were designed to be shown at home.
They required the use of the Kenamo projection machine,
a portable, low-cost movie projector made just for this purpose.
Interested ones who viewed these films were given a glimpse of the Bible lands
and were introduced to many prophecies.
Over the next two decades, the organization used radio and the phonograph
rather than film to reach more people with the Kingdom message.
But in the 1950s, the governing body recognized the need for interested ones
to see for themselves the international scope of the organization.
So they again turned to film with the release of the New World Society in Action.
This one-hour and 20-minute film transported viewers to our Bethel facilities
and international conventions.
It gave them a taste of what it's like to preach in some of the remotest parts of the world.
Additional films released over the next several years,
further highlighted the work of God's people and the fulfillment of Bible prophecies.
Then, in 1966, we released Heritage.
This 28-minute feature was unflinching in its portrayal of the real world problems young people face.
Within the next 60 seconds, another family somewhere in the United States
would be strained to the breaking point.
What's this? Just a family quarrel?
No, it is far more serious than that.
What is it doing to this family?
Following Bible principles builds a solid family foundation.
Heritage was presented at circuit assemblies and other large gatherings.
It was also shown on more than 150 television stations in the United States.
After 1966, the organization shifted away from film
and began presenting modern and biblical dramas live on stage at conventions.
These dramas brought Bible accounts to life for young and old
and were one of the highlights of large conventions for many years.
But as the 1990s approached, new technologies emerged
that prompted our brothers to revisit motion pictures yet again.
Video cassette players could be found in more and more homes.
And so, in 1990, we released our very first video,
Jehovah's Witnesses, the organization behind the name.
It took viewers behind the scenes and built appreciation
for how our literature is produced and used in the global preaching work.
The faithful and discrete slave has made extensive use of video ever since.
Motion picture technology has changed dramatically in 100 years.
But the objective of Jehovah's organization in using it has always been the same.
To touch the hearts of people everywhere with Bible truth.
Jehovah has always understood the power of visuals.
He gave the prophets visions.
And now we have the technology that combines visual power and emotional impact.
Digital technology continues to change.
But our goal has not to reach the heart.
True Christians cherish the truth that this wicked world will soon end.
But what are the pitfalls of serving Jehovah with a date in mind?
In the following dramatization, let's see how a Christian couple
is lovingly helped to adjust their mindset.
I've got some news.
How do you feel about moving to the South Congregation?
Why the South Congregation?
We're not even in their territory.
It's twice as far.
It feels like the wrong time.
With everything happening in the Congregation.
But they need help.
So brother Maseko asked.
Just asked if we'd be willing.
I'm tired.
We can talk about it tomorrow and you.
No. I mean I'm tired of everything.
Starting over, making changes.
This whole system.
We've always been happy to do what Jehovah has asked.
But I never thought this system would drag on for so long.
I don't think either of us ever imagined would be where we are now.
I know we've made the right decisions.
But with our money so tight.
And then tonight holding to Lani.
It's just strange to think that if things had been different.
They probably have a family now.
Tavo. James.
What's the news, my friend?
You're getting an early start tonight.
Well, after this I've got another job.
Good thing I'm only 25.
So I hear you and Lina are moving to the South Congregation.
We need you there.
Yes, we're.
Well, we're talking about it.
You and Lina are always eager to help.
We try our best.
But this move, I don't think we can do it.
Are you okay?
Maybe we're just running out of steam.
Well, you both work very hard.
So do you.
What are you doing Saturday?
Could you come over for some dinner?
I understand.
I never dream that I'll be this agent, this system.
And now look at these wrinkles.
I don't see any wrinkles.
You haven't slowed down a bit.
I have my hard days.
But I've learned a long time ago that focusing on when the end will come.
It's just not good.
That's what happened to Dorothy, you know?
We started pioneering right after we got married.
We were excited.
We thought the end was really close.
But things just kept going.
Years went by, and Dorothy changed.
She was angry that Armageddon hadn't come.
She started doubting it ever would.
In the end, she left Jehovah and me.
That had to be devastating.
It was the hardest time of my life.
And true that 2 Peter 3 verse 12 tells us to await
and keep close in mind the presence of the day of Jehovah.
But we have to be careful not to wait in frustration.
I remember how in Jesus' day, many of his disciples stopped following him.
Because his words didn't meet their expectations.
But what did Peter say?
Oh Lord, who shall we go away to?
For you have sayings of everlasting life.
The truth is the truth, even if it doesn't unfold how or when you expect.
We have to be focused on giving our all today and keeping ourselves in Jehovah's love.
Are you eager to see what unfolds for James and Linda?
Watch for part 2 of our video in a future broadcast.
What do we learn from this first episode?
As Tavo observed, serving Jehovah with a date in mind
can lead to spiritual disaster.
Rather than fixate on when the end comes,
let's focus on who we are now before it arrives.
Tavo also said, the truth is the truth.
How do we know that we are practicing true Christianity?
That's the intriguing topic of this morning worship presented by Brother John Ekran.
Many years ago, a brother of my congregation asked me to go with him in field service
and return on a man who had asked him to come back.
Well, it wasn't too long after we were there in his house
that it became clear to us that he wasn't so much interested in listening to us
as he was to convince us that Jehovah's Witnesses was the wrong religion.
And he went on to attack Brother Russell.
Charles Tays Russell started your organization and he made accusations about Brother Russell did this and that and etc.
And his reasoning was that since Brother Russell was flawed in these ways
that God could not have used him to start the right religion.
Well, we took out the opportunity to point out his wrong reasoning.
And basically, he was saying that God cannot use imperfect men to do his will.
Well, think if we applied that to the Bible.
Moses failed to credit Jehovah God for the miracle with the water.
What are we going to do? Take out the first five books of the Bible.
David sinned with Bathsheep.
We're going to take out most of the Psalms.
Peter denied Christ. There goes first and second Peter.
See that reasoning really doesn't make sense.
Jehovah God does use imperfect people to do his will.
But putting aside his flawed reasoning for a moment,
maybe you've heard others say that Jehovah's Witnesses are breakaway Christian sect
or that we're a new American religion.
Is that really true?
Did Brother Russell start a new religion?
No, absolutely not.
What he did do is rediscover the true religion of the Bible,
the way it was practiced by Jesus and the apostles.
What Russell and the early Bible students did was exactly what Jehovah told the nation of Israel to do
when they had lost their way spiritually.
I'd like you to look at Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse 16.
And notice the advice that Jehovah gave them.
Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse 16.
This is what Jehovah says.
Stand at the crossroads and see.
Ask about the ancient roadways.
Ask where the good way is and walk in it and find rest for yourselves.
Now if you look at the research guide on this verse,
one of the first watchtower references says,
Jehovah exhorts his rebellious people to pause, examine themselves,
and find their way back to the roadways of their faithful ancestors.
Well, that's exactly what those early Bible students did.
They asked about the ancient roadways that Jesus walked.
Now, can you imagine an explorer trying to locate in a jungle an ancient path that was there?
Now, in a jungle, the path could have been covered over by years of growth and it would be difficult.
But maybe he saw a stone or two and eventually by cutting away the jungle around it,
imagine his excitement at finding that ancient path.
Well, when you get a chance to read some of the early writings about the Russell
and the early Bible students, you get a real sense of discovery
that they are excited to have found the truce that they're there in the Bible all along.
It just been covered over with hundreds, thousands of years of lies and twisted doctrines taught by false Christianity.
Yes, Jehovah's Witnesses are not a breakaway religion.
We practice Christianity by following closely the model set out in the Bible by Jesus and the Apostles.
We could really say that the early Bible students led by Holy Spirit found the ancient path of true Christianity
and they cleared away thousands of years of pagan philosophies and man-made doctrines.
Right away, the early Bible students eliminated a lot of jungle growth from the path.
No immortal soul, we are a soul, no hellfire.
When we die, we cease to exist and depend on a resurrection.
The ransom, Jesus' death saved all of mankind that would put faith in them.
God's kingdom is a heavenly government that will rule over the earth and established in 1914.
It's amazing how well they cleared the path. Now, of course, there was still much work to do, but the path was much clearer.
In fact, so clear and profound were those truths, and so clear was the path that if you read the life experiences and life stories of those that came to the truth in the 1920s and 1930s,
they'll often say that they read one book or one brochure and say, I have found the truth.
And, of course, this was not just clearing away doctrine, also how the organization operated.
Appointments of elders, not elections, not paid.
Circuit overseers that visit the congregations like Paul and Timothy did, weekly congregation meetings,
to make sure that we could study and read about Jehovah and discuss Bible truths,
or focus on the preaching work like the apostles did, door to door, and public witnessing.
Our text for today, Acts chapter 16 and verse 4, is one example of how closely Jehovah's organization today follows the first century pattern.
Let's read Acts chapter 16 for its entirety. Acts chapter 16 verse 4,
As they traveled on through the cities, they would deliver to them for observance the decrees that had been decided on by the apostles and the elders who were in Jerusalem.
So led by Jesus Christ, who was it that sent out these decrees? It was the apostles and elders in Jerusalem.
Yes, Jehovah's Witnesses today, we don't have a single leader or one man that is leading the organization.
We're organized today as it was in the first century, a governing body, a group of men, Jehovah uses to lead his organization today.
And all the congregations around the world are united by the direction that we get from the governing body.
And just as the apostles and elders in Jerusalem would send out decrees for all the early Christian congregations of the time, the same exact model is used today.
Now today, decisions from the governing body take many forms. It could be articles in the watch tower, letters to bodies of elders and the congregations, governing body updates, organizational direction provided at schools and many other forms.
But all around the world, no matter where Jehovah's Witnesses live, they accept the direction from one governing body.
There's not the Latin Jehovah's Witnesses or the American Jehovah's Witnesses or the European Jehovah's Witnesses, we're all united worldwide.
And Jehovah's Witnesses in one country don't say, well, you know, I don't think that direction from the governing applies to us here.
No, all of us understand that worldwide, Jehovah and Jesus are using the governing body as the channel for spiritual food and organizational direction.
Now, some feel that because our world headquarters is in the United States, the Jehovah's Witnesses are an American religion.
But that reasoning is like some who say that, well, the Bible is only for the Jews because it was written for by Jewish men.
But clearly, the Bible's message is for all mankind. And the fact that Jehovah chose Jewish men to write it down for us doesn't limit its message to just Jews.
Likewise, the fact that Jehovah chose the United States as the location for world headquarters doesn't mean that Jehovah's Witnesses are an American religion.
There's no limit to anyone no matter what country or language from becoming one of Jehovah's Witnesses and worshipping Jehovah.
And the very fact that Jehovah's Spirit has moved the governing body to work so hard to make sure that the truth is available to all nations is further proof in my mind that we have found the path of Christianity that Jesus and the Apostles practiced.
Let me give you. First, Jehovah's Witnesses are not a new religion started by Brother Russell. But rather, Brother Russell and the early Bible students found the ancient path of Christianity that Jesus and the Apostles walked on.
And secondly, Jehovah's Witnesses are not an American religion. The governing body has made every effort to reach all mankind with the truth.
We truly are the only united worldwide followers of Christ on the planet today.
True Christianity has not changed. But at times our understanding of certain Bible teachings has been clarified. How do you feel about these refinements?
We can learn much from one another's example. Please note the candid life story of Brother Norio Ishibashi.
When will Jesus separate the sheep from the goats? When were true Christians held captive by Babylon the Great? There have been so many interesting developments in our understanding that I have deeply appreciated.
However, some adjustments were a challenge for me. I was baptized in 1960 when I was 12 years old. I enjoy the circuit and district work for 41 years.
In 1971, I was serving as the Congregation Servant. The divine name district assembly shine new light of truth. Before then, congregations had just won overseer the Congregation Servant.
But that assembly highlighted it just as Philippians won one shows the first century Christian congregations had more than one elder. One day, there was a letter in my mailbox. It was from the branch.
The letter said that the arrangement for a body of elders would start. So to prepare the Congregation Committee and exemplar brothers had to meet and recommend those they believe could serve as elders.
We prayerfully discussed a matter. And all of us were recommended as ministerial servants. Until then, I had given public talks and other congregations and at circuit assemblies. Now, I would not be given such assignments.
Many elders from other congregations would come up to me and ask, Brother Ishibashi, can you come and give a talk at our congregation?
Oh, sorry, I can't. I'm not an elder. What? Everyone looked genuinely surprised that really tested my humility and at times I felt quite depressed.
As Proverbs 418 says, the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light. With each flash of light, I needed to adjust to Jehovah's way of thinking and way of handling things and keep moving ahead.
I prayerfully shifted gears. I had many things to do so I devoted myself to the field service and to congregation activities and I rejoiced over the congregation's growth.
Having a body of elders helped many brothers. It helped them reach out and attain the scriptural qualifications to be an elder. That arrangement helps decisions to be made in better harmony with Jehovah's will.
Those are great changes. A few months later, I received another letter from the branch. It said that I was to serve as an elder in a different congregation.
When I receive new publications or a new watchtower magazine, I always study them carefully to see if there are any new understandings or topics to study further.
I also look up the beliefs clarified section in the publications index and I make it a topic of personal study.
This research has really benefited me. Jehovah is the God of love. By clarifying our beliefs, he has adjusted our organization to be more holy and more effective in carrying out his will.
God's people are just getting better and better. We are always at new heights. It is so different from how the world is.
I want to keep moving forward with Jehovah whenever he shows us his will as he guides us into the paradise to come.
Refinements in our understanding of truth can strengthen our faith if we allow them to.
That's what Brother Ishi Bashi did. He kept an open mind and prayerfully meditated on the refinements.
If we do the same, we'll view clarifications as evidence that Jehovah continues to educate his humble people.
Now it's time for this month's music video, which will remind us that Jehovah knows what we need.
It's title? Let's keep it simple.
Let's keep it simple. Let's keep it simple.
And you and I will be free. Let's keep it simple. And be happy.
You're satisfied with simple things. The joy and peace it brings. Let's keep it simple.
We've enjoyed an encouraging program. We've learned that Jehovah has revealed his sacred secret to Christians, not for us to keep to ourselves, but to declare it boldly to all.
Our preaching campaigns are an effective way to find sheep-like ones.
Motion picture technology is a powerful tool to reach people's hearts with Bible truth.
We've learned to appreciate doctrinal refinements as proof of Jehovah's love.
And we've seen the value of focusing not on when the end will come, but on working every day to remain in God's love.
Now let's visit our brothers and sisters in Colombia for this month's postcard.
Does Colombia remind you of a certain beverage?
It makes me think of coffee.
Colombia is one of the world's largest coffee producers, since its soil, rainfall and geography are ideal for growing arabic abines known for their rich flavor and aroma.
But more than coffee thrives here. Over 1,500 species of birds fill the air.
Jaguars, monkeys, sloths and tapers roam the landscape.
Borrowing just below the surface, earthworms grow up to 1.8 meters, or 6 feet in length.
The truth took root in the 1920s when Eleodora Hernandez began reading the watchtower.
The first missionaries arrived in 1945.
In the past, parts of the country suffered from internal conflicts, and some remote areas still experience their effects.
Because our brothers maintain neutrality and wisely exercised caution in the ministry, the preaching work never stopped.
Today, more than 186,000 publishers zealously share the good news with Colombia's 51 million inhabitants.
Our brothers preach in 18 languages and dialects, and can be found in every corner of this diverse land.
In cities such as Manisales, Bogota, Cartajena and Medelln.
You'll see them preaching in communities such as Va de Leyva, rural areas like Niflandia, Crdoba, on the island of Providencia, and yes, on coffee farms too.
Here, publishers are on their way to preach on an Embarachami Indigenous Reservation.
In addition to the ministry, our brothers enjoy association, music, dancing, and delicious Colombian dishes such as Arepas, Mandeja Paisa and Sancocho.
Our brothers and sisters in Colombia, including the Bethel family, send you their warm love and greetings.
And please remember that we too cherish each one of you as part of our precious international family.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.